---
title: On Safety Pins
date: 2016-11-11 15:49 UTC
tags:
  - Personal
  - Politics
---

This [article on Vox][1] came out recently and it might be the dumbest thing in
a long line of dumb things to come out of the election.

If you really believe there are dangerous roving bands of domestic terrorists
looking for nothing more than to murder brown people or whatever[^1]– then why
on earth would you publicize your shibboleth that supposedly signifies safety?
That's rhetorical, of course; it's pure virtue signaling: an empty gesture that
doesn't help (and quite possibly hurts) your cause but shows everyone that
you're a Good Person with the Right Opinions.

Do not stand for bigotry and violence and injustice. If you see someone being
abused or hurt, stand up for them. Be there for them. Protect them. Call these
dangerous acts of domestic terrorism what they are. Donate your time and money
to places that make a real difference like shelters, community outreach
organizations, GLAAD, CAIR, and the ACLU.

I get it. Righteous outrage feels good. Being on the Right Side feels good. But
do your own research before you blindly signal-boost things that confirm your
own beliefs. Making things seem worse than they really are so people you love
think they need to hide at home in fear doesn't help them – it helps the people
whose goal it is to spread fear: the click-bait hack journalists who profit from
fear and outrage generating page-views; the brownshirts who want everyone who
isn't just like them to be afraid and miserable; the government who has gotten
very good at transforming panic into reactionary laws that curtail freedoms and
strengthen the out-of-control surveillance and security apparatuses to the
detriment of everyone.

Skepticism is not a character flaw. It doesn't make you a bad ally to apply a
rational eye towards any accusations or reports, or to question peoples'
motivations, or to criticize the efficacy of their tactics.

[1]: http://www.vox.com/presidential-election/2016/11/10/13586322/trump-brexit-safety-pin
[^1]: 
    and reports of which, as the article itself says, should be taken with a
    grain of salt – as every essentially-anonymous report on social media about
    anything should be
